Comment 1: I believe that for 1Password passkeys can be put in shared vaults. Also, 1Password falls back to master password if Face ID fails. It does NOT fall back to phone passcode. This is a good thing for security. So your trusted family member should have access to you master password or you put specific accounts in the shared vault. 
If you’re worried about security while you’re still alive (i e you don’t want to share) you can put this info in your will or emergency papers

Also, currently there are no sites or services that  have ONLY passkeys. They all, at least for now, still have a password. Also, account backup recovery options are still available like before.Comment 2: You have the same problems when it comes to passwords. Sure, passkey secrets aren’t as easily transmissible as passwords (which can simply be written down in a will or other location), but fundamentally, this isn’t an issue exclusive to passkeys.Comment 3: It seems to me that this would make it *more convenient* than passwords in the same situation. Instead of making sure that you have all of your passwords documented somewhere, you just have to have the passcode for your devices documented. That single passcode allows you to bypass biometrics. The biometrics are just for convenience and to keep someone from shoulder surfing. But if you give someone the code for your device or the master password for 1Password, etc., they don't need you.Comment 4: If you use Apple's iCloud Keychain to sync passkeys, their legacy contacts feature establishes a way for your family or trusted individuals to take ownership of your Apple ID in such an event.

This would grant them access to all saved passwords, 2fa codes, and passkeys owned by you. Individual companies and services may also have their own recovery methods.

Also, this issue isn't unique to passkeys.Comment 5: You can share passkeys with other people in certain instances. If someone has access to a device with the credentials they could use the passkeys on it depending on how they are stored.

Most accounts at this point still require a password as well and there are recovery mechanisms. 

What about accounts only protected by a password? One would still have to plan ahead if they want others to access the accounts after they are gone so it’s no different with passkeys really.Comment 6: You could create a passkey for an application tied to your AppleID, and then you could create another tied to someone else's AppleID/iPhone, for example. If you want someone else to have access to your accounts there are easy ways to do it even with Passkeys.

Prohibiting unauthorized access of an account is a feature, not a bug.Comment 7: All great info. Thank you!Comment 8: One can leave instructions for accessing passwords for accounts.  Passkeys are inherently not accessible to others. So far, no one, not Apple, not the SANS Institute, not Krebs, has come up with a solution. If people switch to passkeys and disable passwords, they are creating a real problem for their future caretakers and heirs.Comment 9: Apple’s Legacy Contacts are NOT granted access to the Keychain. They explicitly state this here: https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT212362Comment 10: It IS different. One can leave instructions for accessing passwords for accounts.  Passkeys are inherently not accessible to others. So far, no one, not Apple, not the SANS Institute, not Krebs, has come up with a solution. If people switch to passkeys and disable passwords, they are creating a real problem for their future caretakers and heirs.Comment 11: But that's no good. They should only get access after you die and you can't set up a passkey linked to their device.Comment 12:  Bitwarden might also allow sharing in shared vaultsComment 13: I think you're overthinking things.

*Strictly when it comes to the topic of recovery plans for passkey protected accounts*, there really isn't a huge diff between password auth and passkeys.  A passkey can be made just as tangible as a password, and can be kept pretty safe, as long as it's always held securely.

For example, you can create a few additional passkeys and enroll them as additional passkeys in every one of your passkey protected accounts.  If these passkeys are held in one or more physical security keys, the physical security keys can be put in a safe or safety deposit box.  The same types of instructions you mention that could be left with passwords, could be created for how to use these passkeys.  The instructions could include websites and the PIN numbers for each physical security key.  If someone somehow got access to just your safety deposit box, they would have no practical way to access the private keys on the physical security keys.  If they got access to just your instructions, they'd need to get access to your safety deposit box in order to access your accounts.

And this is how you could give your accounts a continuity plan without involving the services that these accounts are on.  Behind this, each of your accounts presently, and will always have account recovery steps that could be invoked if anything happened to you.  These can also be used to recover each of your accounts as well.  For example, most banks allow an executor access to accounts in order to distribute funds.  That sorta thing.Comment 14: Not necessarily if the business also allows users to register another strong credential (ie physical Security key) other than passkey although I haven't seen any yet that doesComment 15: Ah bummer. I did not realize that.

Still, you have options. Passwords + backup codes stored in a safe place is one option. Apps like 1Password have what's known as an Emergency Kit, which is a set of credentials anyone can use to access your 1Password account (and synced passkeys). You could do something similar with Bitwarden.

If you trust someone enough, you could create a passkey for one of their devices to grant them access to your primary accounts (Google, Apple, etc), which they could use for account recovery with other services.

Again, all things not unique to passkeys. It's good to think about this sort of thing and talk with your family about creating a plan.Comment 16: That is not correct. Since you mentioned mentioned Apple, they actually allow you to share passkeys via iCloud Keychain. You could also leave instructions on how to access your Apple devices and the passcode and then they could use your own device to use the passkeys stored in keychain. 

You could also create a passkey using a physical yubikey so that anyone that has access to that yubikey can use it. 
“YubiKeys can handle authentication through multiple means: two-factor, (and / or) multi-factor, and touch-to-sign. And with our latest iteration, the YubiKey 5 Series, our security keys even offer passwordless authentication using passkeys.”

https://www.yubico.com/resources/glossary/what-is-a-passkey/

If you have your passkeys stored in the password manager 1password, you could just leave the credentials for the password manager for someone and they can then use any passkeys stored in it if they have access to the account. 

Those are just some examples. I’m not sure where you are getting the idea that passkeys can’t be shared or can’t be accessible by others. There are options and you just have to plan for it.

Also, just to mention, there aren’t many, if any, sites that let you fully delete the password option to login yet after enabling a passkey. Passkeys are in their infancy and we could begin to see other options for sharing them.  Their design doesn’t inherently disallow giving others access to them.Comment 17: Technology doesn’t know when you’re dead to trigger a change in who is authorized. This isn’t a technology problem.

This really isn’t any different than with other authenticators like passwordsComment 18: I already have all the above in place. My question is specifically about passkeys. Many people will switch to passkeys not realizing the difficulty they are creating for their future caretakers and heirs.Comment 19: So my caretaker would be able to use my iPhone and authenticate as me to use my passkeys?  I thought passkeys usually require some form of biometric authentication. 

I use 1Password and like your solution. I just want to ensure the user will not need to biometrically authenticate as me if they need to access my 1Password account from their own PC. For instance if my financial caretaker were in another location (if I were in a hospital or nursing home). Also, I wouldn’t want them to have access until my incapacity is triggered (when their authority kicks in).  So sharing my passkeys beforehand is not an option.Comment 20: However, you can actually share passwords in your will. 
No such luck with passkeys. Your family won't be able to unlock the biometrics even if they have all your devices.Comment 21: Again, not really. If you don’t share the passwords to any of your accounts, your surviving family would have the same problem.

Passkeys don’t have a unique problem here. You’re talking about credential sharing and/or account recovery, which is something you can accomplish regardless if you use passwords or passkeys.

If you don’t talk with them and have a plan in place, they’re going to have difficulty accessing your important accounts.Comment 22: Biometrics aren’t tied to the passkeys, it’s just that some OSes will use biometrics to authenticate in order to access the passkeys.

1Password doesn’t require biometrics in order to access the passkeys, just the 1Password master password is needed. I just tested that on my iPhone, it falls back to the 1password password if Face ID fails and the passkey goes through. 

So for 1password they would just need your 1password master password (and your 1password secret key if you wanted them to use it on a device that wasn’t already logged into your 1password account). 

I’ll have to test iCloud Keychain on the iPhone but I’m pretty sure on my Mac you can use the passkeys in iCloud Keychain just with the Mac user password. At least that’s what I recall, I’d have to test that again.Comment 23: I have a written plan with instructions on how to access all my passwords in place. I am just concerned with them not being able to use my passkeys due to them not being able to authenticate as me.Comment 24: This is so helpful. Exactly the info I was looking for. Thank you. I hate being downvoted for trying to get this important question sorted out.Comment 25: If you rely on Biometrics, you have a larger challenge. Fortunately, PIN CODES can be shared.Comment 26: Why? If password + backup codes are setup, nothing about passkeys would prevent them from accessing those accounts. If you eventually go passwordless, the same account recovery steps would apply as if you forgot a password. You can also assign hardware security keys to your accounts and store them in a safe place, giving one more method of authentication in addition to sharing passkeys.

That’s why having a plan in place helps. It’s a good idea to revisit that plan every so often and ensure that it’s current and still works.

Once again, this problem is not unique to passkeys nor do passkeys create additional problems here.Comment 27: Passkeys are never the only way to sign into an account. All websites that offer a passkey give you options. They also allow you to log in with a regular password, such as in case you are using a computer that doesn’t have Face ID or Touch ID. I have a passkey for my Best Buy account but I also use my password, sign in with Google or Sign in with Apple. Passkey is NOT the only authentication method on any website.Comment 28: Glad to help. I think it’ll be a long while before passkeys completely replace passwords for most accounts, still a lot of stuff like this to get worked out.Comment 29: I have a plan and written instructions already in place. I am specifically concerned with passkeys (with no fallback passwords). Because I don’t want to share my passkeys until I am incapacitated (or have died) as my trustee and executor is not family, but a hired trustee.  When this legal trigger goes in effect, they would follow my instructions to access my accounts to pay my bills (or my estate’s bills). 

Can I create multiple Yubikeys that allow access to my passkeys and for which I could instruct my caretaker to access upon my incapacity or death?Comment 30: According to Security Now podcast episode 953, GitHub disables all other forms of authentication upon enabling passkeys.  https://www.grc.com/sn/SN-953-Notes.pdfComment 31: Depends on what you use to sync passkeys, but you could setup some Yubikeys to store passkeys for your primary accounts (like email for account recovery), as well as to help access passkeys for other sites that are synced to another device such as Android/Apple, or with a password manager like 1Password or Bitwarden.

I don’t imagine passwordless will be a thing without having some sort of written backup codes specifically for situations like this. It’s unlikely passkeys will be your _only_ method of logging into most of your accounts any time soon.Comment 32: That’s wrong. GitHub has both options on their website and app. If you don’t believe me, try it yourself. https://github.com/loginComment 33: This is helpful. Thank you!