Comment 1: You can store your passkeys in a password manager like 1PasswordComment 2: You don't have to trust the big players. Plenty of password managers allow you to use and store passkeys while giving you full control so you can export them and what not. Strongbox (a KeePass client for Apple devices) does, same with 1Password.Comment 3: You can use Yubikeys, or other security keys. In that case the passkey is hardware-bound. Other than that, you must trust the password manager (whether it's built-in from the platform or a third-party one) with your passkeys.Comment 4: KeePassXC offers local, offline storage of passkeys.Comment 5: You can just have a passkey on each device and not trust the big guys to have them.
The trickiest part of passkeys is recovery of the account.Comment 6: The devil is in the details. How each authenticator implements the support for passkeys. The safest option is always to use a security key. But if someone steals your security then you are done. Recovery is a nightmare. So it’s all about trade offs. Personally I’m okay with a cloud synced passkeys as opposed to physical security keys for most online login purposes.Comment 7: I had similar post earlier. My question is that if the password manager is hacked and hacker gets my passkey. Can he log in to my account with that passkey?Comment 8: It’s the same as your regular passwords. If your password manager gets hacked then it’s a bigger problem. I’m sure your password manager will definitely have some kind of multi factor authentication. So if someone is able to get through that then you have bigger problem. Stolen passkeys is the least of your concern.Comment 9: I believe so. Always some risk with cloud usage. Some sites support 2FA to mediate some risk, but some also allow passkeys to overrule even if 2FA is active.Comment 10: Agree. Also from a meta perspective people using password managers and exactly knowing what 2FA is are the last people to worry about getting hacked. Passkeys will help the broad consumer space so if you worry over your mom and dad that helps there when passkeys are at a stage where they just use they iPhone to Login but can give the passkey to an attacker asking for their banking details.