Comment 1: You have to have Bluetooth in for Passkeys to work. It maybe showing you a previously paired Android phone.Comment 2: Nope. I am 100% sure, and tested it again..

I tried again with both bluetooth and UWB off.

It did work .

But when I switch off bluetooth on the mac it says: "no bluetooth"

But maybe you are right. Bluetooth has a long range.

Now I switched off blu4tooth on all my android devices

\-I choose my Note 20 (No bluetooth)

\-the note 20 gave me this "keep close" and I had to click on the drop down, and then fingerprint and hoppa.

only explanation I have is that it switches bluetooth on itselve.Comment 3: I think you are right.(with respect): previously paired phone/passkey wil work.

My ten cents so far:

-the authorisation process via Passkeys is stopped when  Bluetooth on the Mac itself is switched off. Google says Mac bluetooth has to stay on

-on the phone side bluetooth, UWB and Wifi can be switched of. The authorisation is successful after entering my fingerprint.. with a Phone, earlier paired, using 4G.
- I used Chrome new incognito tab, but for the Macbook itselve the pairing, of course took place.
-latest versions of Firefox and Safari on the Macbook never offered my Passkey list to choose  only Yubikey like devices. 

Chrome, of course gave other options to login. I have 2Fa enabled with 2fa app. Or password 

So I use Chrome "new incognito tab" because in that case I can test all my Passkey devices.Comment 4: Google says both bluetooth have to be switched on.

[https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/9289445?hl=en&co=GENIE.Platform%3DAndroid](https://support.google.com/accounts/answer/9289445?hl=en&co=GENIE.Platform%3DAndroid)

&#x200B;

weird

&#x200B;

Only explantion I have that Google/Samsung switches bluetooth on .


Oops, not even that. I even had Wifi switched off. was quite far away (only connectd via 5G) and again worked. So it has communicated via 5G.

And maybe, because it was paired before, it worked.Comment 5: I was just wondering if you have a android phone like the Pixel 6A can you use your phone as a passkey to login into your account on a PC if your PC doesn't have Bluetooth capabilities by default? I was just wondering because I know that my phone says there is a passkey already on it, but whenever I try to login I never get the verify your identity prompt on my phone. I always have to either go back to my password or use the QR code that prompts on my PC. But I do admit my PC doesn't have Bluetooth capabilities by default. I have to use a Bluetooth removable device to use say connect wireless earbuds to my PC.Comment 6: To be honest? I personally do not feel capable enough to fully understand Passkeys.
I am getting closer and closer, but still.

I have a PayPal Passkey, that I can find in the list of Google Passwords. So its there. And now?
Is the PayPal passkey also on my phone?

But if I have a Bitwarden Passkey I am still not sure. 

I feel stupid, but i am sure that sooner or later I will be enlighted. Or a book "Passkeys For Dummies" will appear.

In the case of being close to a computer it is also possible that that computer "knows" already who I am.

Pfff.

Will be greatfull for a site that explains for dummies like me.Comment 7: I'm in the same boat. I feel like I wish someone would either show a tutorial on how to do so with a Pixel phone or at least someone should show how to do so on a YouTube video or something.Comment 8: Haha. I am  not alone. Thx