Comment 1: Right now, I wouldn’t delete anything and I’m not seeing that message anywhere. What screen are you seeing it on?

As for the future use of Passkeys. I think it’s up to web sites to decide how they will be used. It’s still early days.Comment 2: iCloud Keychain. I consolidated my passkey and my username and password because they were two by adding my username and password to the passkey, and it said to delete the passwordComment 3: Oh, you’re referring to the Password Manager screen you access from the Settings app. I asked because their is an iCloud Keychain settings screen in the iCloud settings.

When I look at my accounts list in the Password Manager for the ones that use Passkey I still have a separate account entry for the original User Name/Password combo. Are you trying to add the password to the accounts that use Passkey?Comment 4: I combined them by adding my username and password to my passkey. When you do that, it says something about deleting your password I mentioned above. Are passkeys ready to go passwordless because none are that I’ve noticedComment 5: Yes, the ultimate goal is to eliminate passwords in favour of passkeys. Not sure what you are experiencing and whether it is related. I’m not experiencing that behaviour.

Just to clear things up! I’ll use one of my accounts as an example.

I’ve had an eBay account forever that used the regular user name/password. Recently eBay started using passkeys so I set that up as well. 

If I look at my eBay account entry in the Password Manager there are now two separate ones, the original one that has the user name/password combo and a newer separate entry that has my user name and passkey. The one that includes the passkey does not include the password for that account. I can however edit it to add my password, I won’t, so that is maybe what you are doing and why you are getting that message. 

I prefer to leave things as they are with separate account entries for user name/password and user name/passkey until passkeys mature.