Comment 1: I won't start using them unless/until I am able to export them **and** re-import them whenever I want.

As you say, I want to own my credentials. Even if I trust some app to help me manage and sync them, it's critical to me to always have a completely recoverable local backup.Comment 2: You can use a yubikey as a passkey. Then you’ll physically have it.Comment 3: The latest version of KeepassXC have the possibility of import and export passkey, the pull request was accept today.   


https://snapshot.keepassxc.org/latest/Comment 4: Your inability to access them directly is part of what makes them phishing resistant. You can have backups of passkeys in multiple ecosystems to address those concerns. (Which are valid!)Comment 5: Actually you can use app like Strongbox, that is KeePass database and the DB can be stored locally everywhere you want.Comment 6: I feel you. Until it's easy to migrate passkeys across ecosystems, passkeys will not have large-scale adoption. Unless someone does absolutely everything from within a single ecosystem, as soon as they hit that roadblock trying to login from something else and not being able to use their passkey, they will drop the whole thing. They'll go back to just using passwords they already understand and can easily use everywhereComment 7: I agree. The only reason why everyone jumped on the passkey bandwagon was because they saw the vendor lock-in potential.Comment 8: Necrobump, you can now do this with Bitwarden. And with Vaultwarden you own the entire stack.Comment 9: You can. But the Yubikey can only store 25 passkeys, then it's full.

[https://www.yubico.com/blog/a-yubico-faq-about-passkeys/](https://www.yubico.com/blog/a-yubico-faq-about-passkeys/)

>Currently, YubiKeys can store a maximum of 25 passkeys. We are evaluating increasing this in the future because of the likely increase in fully passwordless experiences across the web that require them.

If Passkeys really take off, then the Yubikey is not going to be your answer.Comment 10: The only way I can get that to work is using Chrome. Firefox won't do it, and Apple doesn't give the option.

But that leads to a similar problem.  Now I have to have my Yubikey with me. And I need to set up multiple Yubikeys on each site. I can't get my passkeys off the Yubikey, so if I lose the Yubikey, I'm screwed.

There's also the issue of Yubikeys being limited to only 25 passkeys. I really hope they fix that with a new Yubikey 6.Comment 11: I want them in my local ecosystem in a generic format usable by any software. I don't wan to store them in an ecosystem where my account might somehow get banned, such as Google, Apple or a paid password manager (1Password, Bitwarden, etc).

Passkeys may be phishing resistant. But websites that don't allow you to turn off all methods of authentication are NOT phishing resistant.

And if I am going to just use a passkey, I need to be able to back it up in a way that I can still get to it if I lose access to online accounts that store them and only have a local copy.Comment 12: So, Keepass supports Passkeys now? When did that happen.Comment 13: Checked the website. Though Strongbox does do Passkeys now, there is no export or import. And it sounds like the passkeys are NOT part of the the Keepass database. It's also only available in the iOS app.

I'll wait for the export and import feature and MacOS support. Without it, it's just another vendor lock-in.Comment 14: Thing is most people tend to carry one phone with them, and in general they stick with whatever platform they choose. The ecosystem itself doesn’t matter as much since passkeys can be used by the users phone to authenticate a machine without storing a new passkey on it.

Presumably passkey transport is something that’s being worked on. The entire point of passkeys is that they _can’t_ be easily exportable, that defeats the main security benefit of them. That said, people do need to be able to move them between systems they own, and figuring out how to do that securely is going to be challenging.

For now, it’s honestly not that difficult to create one passkey for each ecosystem you use if you wish, and never worry about it again.Comment 15: [deleted]Comment 16: Perhaps, but can’t completely dismiss that as a longer term solution if they do expand that number as they state they are evaluating. 

With the current state of passkey adoption, the 25 passkey limit isn’t too much of an issue.Comment 17: I was thinking this morning there are a lot of accounts I have where passkeys would just be overkill. I don’t need Fort Knox grade security for my Netflix account or some forum accounts I rarely use. I would want to use them for my Reddit account since someone could take over my account and impersonate me. Im sure streaming services would love it if everyone used passkeys since password sharing would be a thing of the past, but they’re are definitely accounts where I will still want to use a simple password I can easily share because hacking is a non issue. 
I like third party solutions like 1Password for passkeys, as long as I’m not using a passkey for 1Password itself. Even in a catastrophic situation where I lose all my devices I can still get to my passkeys with information that is stored in my brain (password), although the secret key would have to be stored off site in a secure location.Comment 18: Sounds like Passkeys aren’t a good fit for you, then.Comment 19: Some KeePass apps like Strongbox yes, I tested it and works very good.Comment 20: They are defenatly part of the DB. As far as I know they are planning also export. But as I can easily move,backup,etc... my DB file I do not see why I would need export, except maybe migration to another app different then KeePass.

But overall this is best KeePass app that I have ever used.

The cons are mainly that it works only on iphone and Mac and also you need paid subscription for some features like open with PIN and face recognition.Comment 21: Well that's literally not the entire point of passkeys. The point of passkeys is to have an easily accessible way to use FIDO authentication and have non-phishable credentials. People aren't having their accounts compromised because they can export their password vaults. Allowing people to export their passkeys isn't some crazy difficult issue to solve. It's a conscious decision that they're not working on.
And sure, it's not that hard to set them up on multiple devices, but most users won't go through that process multiple times when they can just do what they've always done, since they'll have to enter their password to set it up anyway. It's just another pointless barrier that could be easily removed if vendors didn't prioritize lock in. Small barriers keep a massive portion of people from doing things. That's why people use the same short password for everything when they could easily use a password manager that would make their life easier and more secureComment 22: You're missing the point.

Right now there is NO way to move your passkeys anywhere. So, if I create passkeys on 25 sites and save them in iCloud keychain, that's great. But then I decide to move to Android.  I can't move those passkeys to Google. I need to go into all those sites and create new passkeys and revoke the old ones.

Even if you use a cross-platform solution such as 1Password.  Great. Now you can change phones.  You can change from Mac to Windows.  Know what you can't do?  You can't get rid of 1Password and switch to Bitwarden without revoking all your passkeys and then creating all new ones in Bitwarden.

Even if you use a "local only" solution such as Strongbox on the Mac, you still can't export your passkeys and move them. They're forever trapped in Strongbox.

The Passkeys spec doesn't have anything in it about exporting or moving your keys. I had email support exchanges with 1Password about this. They WANT TO be able to allow you to export your passkeys. But that's not part of the spec. So, they're working with the FIDO alliance to add it to the spec and then they plan to add it to 1Password.

Until that happens, Passkeys are a great vendor lock-in.  You can't switch from Chrome to Firefox, because all your passkeys are trapped in Chrome. Can't switch from Android to iPhone because Google has all your passkeys.

Now, people like us on the geekier level will be able to create new passkeys and revoke the old ones. But for the average America, it might as well be vendor lock in. For them you visit a site and click on the "Passkey" button and they just magically login to a site.Comment 23: If the account has payment information saved, you want Fort Knox level of security. Forum accounts, probably not. Netflix, definitely yes.Comment 24: Obviously not.

They're a good way to get vendor lock-in. I think that's why Apple, Google and everyone else hopped on board as fast as they could. They saw the vendor lock-in potential.

It feels like a half-ass solution to me.Comment 25: I have not read about Keepass or KeepassXC adding Passkeys support. I'm curious if I could take my Strongbox DB and open it in Keepass or KeepassXC and use the Passkeys in it.Comment 26: >Allowing people to export their passkeys isn't some crazy difficult issue to solve. It's a conscious decision that they're not working on.

The FIDO Alliance literally is [working on passkey portability](https://www.cnet.com/tech/mobile/with-ios-17-and-macos-sonoma-passkeys-coming-to-apple-id-login/). Both Google and Apple have pledged support for this according to CNET.Comment 27: I’m not totally sure this addresses your complaint, but recently with Amazon I created a few passkeys. One is stored in 1Password behind my master password, the other is stored on a physical security key. I think I even have a third one on iCloud Keychain. This doesn’t in any way solve your main complaint, but it does make it less painful should you ditch a particular ecosystem.Comment 28: I'm not sure I agree with this. What can someone who hacks into a streaming service  account do? They could upgrade my account I suppose. Is there a scenario I'm not thinking of?Comment 29: One can easily create Passkeys than span different ecosystems, that’s the exact opposite of vendor lock-in. Frankly I’ve found it easier to create Passkeys in multiple ecosystems than to move my contacts or photos. 

Most users already trust either Google or Apple with their passwords through built-in password auto-fill, Passkeys just strengthen that authentication. 

Just because it doesn’t fit your niche, less secure use case doesn’t make it half ass.Comment 30: What you are saying makes a lot of sense to be honest, in my opinion we need a decentralized passkey that’s not controlled by any company as Google, Apple and other companies are clearly trying to doComment 31: Haven't tried this, but I am pretty sure that you will be able to see the passkey entry, but not use it in websites as they do not support passkeys yet.Comment 32: there is a pull request in KeepassXC github with a passkey implementation. Keepassium and Strongbox already are up about this and there are discussions about a pattern.Comment 33: There's nothing stopping passkeys portability to already be implemented. Individual devs have already made projects that provide it within the passkeys manager. It's not like the standard prohibits it.
It seems like FIDO is just trying to create a workaround for the issues the big players have created. And while I love individual projects that solve problems that shouldn't have existed, it doesn't help for mass adoption. It's great that FIDO is trying to hold the hands of these massive companies that could have easily solved the "issue" of portability, as if they just don't know how to write code or something. It's still a fumble of a rollout. And until passkeys can be easily shared across ecosystems, people just aren't going to put in the work.Comment 34: Well, there is always the possibility they could get your payment information. If you have a saved credit card with Netflix, they may be able to get access to that.

And it's not really hacking your account.  It's someone hacking Netflix and exfiltrating the data of millions of customers.Comment 35: There is a thread in the 1Password discussion forums about this.  1 Password says they're working with the FIDO Alliance to add a secure way to export and import passkeys to the spec.

I'm sure they'll get there one day. But the question is, will Apple. Google and other large companies support it?

And then we have the "weakest link" problem. If a site won't let you go "all passkey" and delete your password permanently, then all the passkey is doing is making it a lot easier to login to a website.Comment 36: I'll experiment with this when it's added to the MacOS version. Thanks for letting me know about it.