Comment 1: Not fully baked yet. 

Try this. Suppose you have an Android phone, Windows, and iPhone (and/or iPad). Got the email this morning. Told me my Android phone already had a passkey. Went to create one on Windows - no problem. Went to do same thing on iPhone, and to make a long story short, you can't do this unless you are using keychain. But I use Bitwarden, and that effectively precludes the use of Keychain. And, I can't authenticate iphone from my Android phone nor Windows.   Yes, there are workarounds to get onto my Google account withoutmthe passkey, but not a fully baked solution yet.Comment 2: so I set up passkeys on my google accounts and when I tried to sign in on a different device (imac, ipad) and I scanned the QR code it would say that there is no passkey in keychain that matches that account. After signing in with yubikey it then asks me to make a passkey, i say continue and then it will say that one already exists?!

&#x200B;

So clearly passkey isn't working. I deleted the passkeys and recreated them on my iMac this time but it's the same issue when trying to sign in. I don't understand. 

&#x200B;

So far the hope and potential of passkeys have been found lacking for me :/Comment 3: It looks like it's not possible to go "truly passwordless" just yet. Hopefully this will be possible soon, because it's the thing I'm looking forward to the most and the first step towards towards eliminating the need for a password manager.

I enabled passkeys, then I used the Samsung Browser on a S23 Ultra, and it prompted for a password. I'd actually expect to outright not let me login on browsers that don't support passkeys yet.Comment 4: I set up Passkeys on my iPhone and then went on to login through my Windows PC. There, it prompts for login through a password than a QR. I'm not sure if it's supposed to work this way though. Shouldn't it show a QR to be scanned which I can directly scan through iPhone with Passkey enabled and get the access?Comment 5: I was able to create the Passkey successfully, and I can see it's now synced with an iCloud account across multiple devices.... but now I can't use it anywhere? I've tried to login via Chrome on Windows and macOS, and via Safari on macOS and iOS, but I can't get it to prompt for the passkey. Is there a specific combination of ecosystem, browser and OS where folks have had success?Comment 6: Bitwarden has announced they will release Passkey support soon, as they recently acquired a company focused solely on passwordless security technology.

The best idea is to wait until Bitwarden and other password managers roll out Passkey support for exactly this reason, to avoid ecosystem lock-in and the friction between different platforms. 

You *can* also use a resident key on a hardware-based security key, but this will take up memory, of which there is a finite (and typically small) amount on said devices. Yubikeys, for example, can hold about 32 resident keys, but it seems smarter to reserve that for critical logins like your password vault or primary email, and to keep the Passkeys for the bulk of your services inside a properly configured cloud vault (such as Bitwarden will be).Comment 7: Still I think it's really exciting to see that they rolled it out for all major platforms, not just AndroidComment 8: This is very similar to my experience. I was able to create passkeys, but not use them.Comment 9: On which device / OS did you create the passkeys in your first attempt?Comment 10: If you're prompted to scan the QR code sounds like the passkey didn't sync as expected in your icloud key chain to be directly available to the browser on both devices. When you scan the QR code it tries to use this proxy Bluetooth approach to use the passkey, I've used that approach a few times but I still have Q's on the implementation as it does require a brief Bluetooth connection on both devices and I assume it fails if it can't toggle Bluetooth onComment 11: [deleted]Comment 12: Did it work for you on another browser?Comment 13: Yeah, the only thing I can think of is that not all browsers have proper support for passkeys yet. When trying to log into my account on the Samsung Galaxy Browser, it also prompts for my password. Chrome and Safari work fine.

It’s annoying. This is supposed to help you go passwordless, and it’s like 99% there haha.Comment 14: I think the logic that determines when you are promoted for the passkey by default is still a little tricky, since most users have a lot of methods on their accounts. On your Windows PC the passkey would not be directly available to the browser, so it would need to use the QR code + Bluetooth proxy transfer method.Comment 15: The logic for when it prompts directly to passkey by default is still a bit of a question I think, I'm not sure what logic google uses for that, I assume it has to do with the passkeycbeing available to that browser to issue the challenge but I wonder how google is able to detect thatComment 16: Yeah. Seems like that’s going to be the case. Such a shame. Was hoping to live in a password free world but will keep using KeePassXC for now.Comment 17: I first set it up with my iPhone like the email said but that didn’t work. 2nd attempt I used my iMac. Both are running the latest OSes. iMac is an M1 and I have an iPhone 13.Comment 18: I created the passkey with Safari on macOS. I saw the passkey propagate to other devices using the iCloud keychain, but I can't use it to login anywhere else. I confirmed I can use other passkeys to sign-on to other services, just not Google.Comment 19: So what does that mean? They’re just not going to work as promised?Comment 20: hmm.. just tried again on my iMac with iphone scanning QR code but got the same result. Will have to stick with yubikey for 2FA for now. And isn't passkeys supposed to be just direct sign in instead of 2FA? So weird. I guess it's  a work in progress. So weird that so far BestBuy is the only one that I had a good result with. 

&#x200B;

PayPal is supposed to have passkey support but I can't find it anywere in account settings lol.Comment 21: It worked and prompted for passkeys on Safari and Chrome.Comment 22: As of right now I'd say to not expect them to work in all scenarios yet, while Google launched support on their side, the support for them across all the OS and browser platforms is definitely still evolving. Big thing right now is that passkeys created on mobile device are effectively locked into Apple or Android ecosystem you created them in. They should sync to devices used with that account and they have the QR  code Bluetooth method, but as you see that doesn't necessarily work.

I just tried to sign in on Android Edge/Firefox and I did not see a way to use my passkey. I was able to use my phone as a U2F that I had registered to verify as a single method but that's not a passkeyComment 23: [deleted]Comment 24: Yeah. Pretty much.Comment 25: yeah i looked under 2fa settings but there is no passkey or passwordless option in sightComment 26: Well thanks to this [article](https://www.cultofmac.com/799018/how-to-use-passkeys/), I finally got passkeys to work with [BestBuy.com](https://BestBuy.com). Finally one online account where passkeys work. Looking forward to a passkey future (if it works like it did with bestbuy).Comment 27: [deleted]Comment 28: Ok gave it a shot. QR code shows up for like a second and then goes away so no way for me to scan it lol. Yeah PayPal is a PITA.