Comment 1: See https://passkeys.dev/device-support/Comment 2: The operating systems on the computers will likely have poor support for passkeys if any. I recommend a third-party password manager not only for cross-platform compatibility but also to add passkey support.Comment 3: macOS: Ventura and newer.


iOS: 16 and newer.


https://www.lifewire.com/how-to-use-passkeys-on-iphone-ipad-or-mac-6544768Comment 4: Windows 10 should be OK. The existence of a TPM will determine if the passkey is hardware bound.Comment 5: Thank you for that link. I've saved it. But after studying it for five minutes, I'm not sure I understand yet whether there's a way to get say a six or seven-year old MacBook Air to work with passkeys. No fingerprint reader built in, and although I'm pretty sure it has a front-facing camera, apparently the camera was not designed to be used for authentication. Could she create a passkey using, say, the PIN that she uses to get into her computer?Comment 6: So I have indeed gotten her using NordPass as her password manager. It has what I think is very good support for passkeys and I use this aspect of NordPass myself. So you think that my daughter, notwithstanding the age of her devices, should be able to create and use passkeys so long as she puts them into NordPass (or Bitwarden, 1Password, whatever)?Comment 7: Oh, thank you for that link. I'm visiting her right now and I'll figure out what OS she's got installed on her MBA. I know it's NOT the latest. This is helpful. Thanks.Comment 8: Okay, I'll look at her computer and see if she's got a TPM. Thanks for the suggestion.Comment 9: I’m not a macOS expert. I don’t know if she can run the latest os on her hardware. If she can then I think a pin based option seems realistic. But I will defer to others to comment.Comment 10: Yes, I think that would be the best approach.Comment 11: Bitwarden will probably work with all of thoseComment 12: If she can enable Windows Hello, it's a good sign that passkeys will work.