Comment 1: Bitwarden supports Passkeys only using the browser extension and in the latest iOS client beta, but it's only a matter of time until it's supported more broadly on all platforms. It's all still very new.

So far most websites only implement passkeys as 2FA method and still require a traditional username/password combo to login, as you noted some are going passwordless. With passkeys you don't even require a username, but I haven't seen any bigger website implement it that way so far. I don't see why that wouldn't be changed in the future, though.Comment 2: Pass keys can already replace passwords completely. The service you're using will still want your email or some other form of communication so you can login if you lose your passkey (think of it like "forgot password").Comment 3: > With passkeys you don't even require a username

Because it’s embedded in the passkey. Comment 4: thanks, it seems like w the advent of passkeys it would make sense to begin eliminating less secure forms of 2fa, since pk are more or less used as a form of 2fa with most accounts theyre available on. that part makes it seem like pk would have already proven one purpose (to get rid of less secure 2fa), but that hasnt really happened, seems to me anyway.

why force me to keep a numher for verification purposes (as well as an email) when a pk is avaulable to use in its place?

amazon doesnt require a phone number, but it does still req an email and password + totp. ms, no pw anymore but must keep  email and or a phone number, and i dont think u can choose pk to login w. is this just cuz each company chooses to implement them differently? they shouldnt be wary of letting users who want it have the option to only use pk as login or as 2fa (and bye to sms for ex). i get that its new and costly to imppement tho hence mixed bags re implelementation.Comment 5: thanks! u mean like if u lose ur device or accidentally delete the needed passkey? i get that. i guess im just wondering why companies like microsoft force me to retain an email plus number or 2 different emails for verification. passkeys and the other 2fa set up are better than email options and are more secure, right? like if my.pk was the only way for me to verify, itd eliminate the risk of the other methods still being used against me to gain access to the account in question (in this case, outlook, which ive.got set up passwordless, a totp app, and have several passkeys, but cant delete either of the 2 emails they require me to keep for verification.

with all the other methods of 2fa set up isnt it not a bad idea to allow opting out of email 2fa? already got authenticator, passkey, totp, i just use email 2fa when ms decides it doesnt like the way i used their authenticator and starts glitching during login lol. this started being a thing after i changed mine to an alias and removed my original addy and man does authenticator not like that. 

any idea ms requires their authenticator for pw-less, even as it allows other auth apps? is it a get everybody to use authenticator thing or is it just more manageable keeping that in house with the move to pw-less? my outlook is the sole reason i have ms auth on my phone.