Comment 1: I'm looking forward to widespread adoption of Passkeys. I think it will reduce sign-up friction, and reduce tech support issues from users forgetting their credentials. 

I have already seen some inconsistency in the few sites that support Passkeys.  In some cases, you can just click "sign in with a Passkey", and you're done. In other cases you must enter a username or email address first. It would be nice if that were not required. 

From a user's perspective, the use of Passkeys looks a lot like "sign in with Google" or "sign in with Apple", which IMHO, are already pretty good options. 

Personally, I'm concerned about platform lock-in. There needs to be some way to port a user's passkeys, say, out of Apple, and into Google. Since this probably won't happen easily, I'm also looking forward to Passkey support from 3rd party password managers. 

I'm also concerned about browser support. Will I have to use a specific browser? Again, I'm hoping that 3rd party plug-ins will make the support universal.Comment 2: Absolutely and since I am our family IT guy I sometimes see the passwords used by people. Usually quite simple and used over and over again. And for some reason people are afraid for 2fa totp. So my hopes are on passkeys because they are easy to use and so much more secure.Comment 3: >In some cases, you can just click "sign in with a Passkey", and you're done.

Do you have any examples of this? I didn't know it was possible. It would definitely be easier from a user perspective.Comment 4: I think Passkeys are in-built with support for cross-devices and cross-platforms. Once you have account on one device, you can login to other device using QR scan (same like we do for whatsapp web version). Here is a link of video explaining it. [Youtube link](https://youtu.be/SWocv4BhCNg?t=227)

I agree that certain browsers like Mozilla still do not support Passkeys. But seeing all Big Techs (Google, Apple. Microsoft) leading the Passkey group, soon all OS, browsers should be compatible.Comment 5: yes, from a user point of view, This could be really helpful. As it will give a smooth and simpler function for all, at the same time secure.Comment 6: At the demo site, [passkeys.io](https://passkeys.io), you need to enter an email to sign up initially, but when you return, you don't need to type in an email. You can just click "Sign in with a passkey".  MacOS (Safari) then prompted something like "Do you want to sign in with the passkey for (my email address)"?  So, it is capable of remembering the user's email that was used to create the passkey in the first place... So, why should I ever have to type it when signing in again?Comment 7: You can check out, [passkeylab.com](https://passkeylab.com) to see how this works. Once you login, you can just sign in with passkeys.Comment 8: This is possible because passkeys are unique compared to passwords that can be used by mutliple users. So we can identify users just by their passkey, no email is needed except for recovery, login with a code sent to the email or notifications purpose

But now the correct implementation is up to each site or third party login service.

Microsoft did it well but not Google for example. On Google you still need to enter your email firstComment 9: At the first instance you might have to enter the email address or phone number, this user flow is stated by the company that is implementing passkeys. This is required for sending out campaigns or newsletters.  
However, once that is done you won’t have to enter it again and we can log in directly using your touchID or faceID.Comment 10: A concern that testers must be facing with the [passkey.io](https://passkey.io) demo is that if your device is not compatible it doesn't explain anything and does not go forward. so it's a little confusing to understand the process.