Comment 1: Well, seems they’ve updated things now so using passkeys for Microsoft accounts no longer requires the Microsoft Authenticator app on Apple devices. It works with the built-in password manager. Last time I tried, months ago, it wouldn’t work without using the Microsoft Authenticator app.Comment 2: skimmed it, does this mean pw-less passkey sign in *without* using authenticator?Comment 3: Here is a mention of this on Verge:  [Microsoft launches passkey support for all consumer accounts - The Verge](https://www.theverge.com/2024/5/2/24147124/microsoft-passkeys-support-consumer-msa)Comment 4: The feature became available May 2.Comment 5: I’ve had passkeys for logging into my Microsoft account using 1Password to store my passkey since September last year, and I’ve had YubiKeys for that ever longer. I’ve never needed the Microsoft Authenticator app and still don’t have it. I don’t understand what has changed at all. I still can’t go completely parodies without the app, though.Comment 6: Not from what I’ve experienced. I just tried to turn on passwordless account again, and it still requires the Authenticator app.Comment 7: Yes. I just added a Passkey for my MS account to my android tablet. The tablet PIN unlocks the Passkey.Comment 8: Yes it does. 

I was finally able to add the passkey to the built-in password manager on iPhone and it was shared across all devices using iCloud Keychain. No need for Microsoft Authenticator anymore. I’ve never installed Microsoft Authenticator so I was never able to enable passkeys for my Microsoft account until now.Comment 9: So fairly recently. 

I hadn’t tried it for months since trying to use passkeys with a Microsoft account when they first announced support. I was waiting for an announcement like this. I didn’t want to install another password manager just to use their service when the built-in password manager already had support for passkeys.

This is a good update that should help spur adoption.Comment 10: Interesting.  I guess you may still need Authenticator installed on at least one device to *enable* passwordless but you don't need it on every device.  I've been passwordless for about 9 months now with Authenticator installed on my iPhone since then.  Last night I successfully added a Passkey to my Android tablet that has never had Authenticator on it.

It might now be possible for me to now remove Authenticator from my iPhone.  However, I use Authenticator to sync Edge passwords between my desktop and my iPhone.  This allows iOS to use my Edge passwords the same way it uses Key Chain passwords.Comment 11: After adding the Authenticator app to your account and removing the password, you can then remove Authenticator from the account:

[Additional security options (live.com)](https://account.live.com/proofs/manage/additional?mkt=en-US&refd=account.microsoft.com&refp=security)Comment 12: same..I still can't remove the bloody ms authenticator. I hate it.Comment 13: awesome. no more ms authenticator. thx.Comment 14: mines password less and I already had a passkey set up. as of today I still can't remove the auth. do I need to redo passkeys or something.Comment 15: Are you already passwordless on your MS account?  u/sonnieboy97 said MS still required him to install Authenticator to enable passwordless for the account.  I was able to add a Passkey to my Andorid tablet without having to install Authenticator on the tablet, but I already had Authenticator on my iPhone.  It may be that you still need Authenticator on at least one device.Comment 16: Did you try this link?  

[Additional security options (live.com)](https://account.live.com/proofs/manage/additional?mkt=en-US&refd=account.microsoft.com&refp=security)

I have Yubikeys, Windows Hello, and an alternate email enrolled as "ways to prove who you are" on my passwordless MS account.  At the link above, it offers to let me remove Authenticator as "a way to prove who you are."  I haven't tried it, however, as I want to keep Authenticator on my phone for syncing Edge passwords.Comment 17: I’m certainly no expert but my understanding of how it currently works is that you can’t migrate passkeys from one authentication platform to another, for example, from Microsoft Authenticator to Apple’s Keychain. You have to delete the passkey used by Authenticator and create a new one for Keychain.Comment 18: I was able to enable passkey for my Microsoft account on my Apple devices without the need to install Microsoft Authenticator which I was not able to do before. The passkey is now stored in the built-in password manager and shared across devices using iCloud Keychain. I’ve never had Microsoft Authenticator installed.

If your question is asking whether I have removed the old style password, no I haven’t. I wouldn’t do that without many years of gaining trust in passkeys even if it is possible. I’m not aware if you can remove the old style password or not.Comment 19: yes I tried removing my passkey and readding it and all sorts of stuff and it still says Ms auth can't be removed. but it doesn't require it for sign in anymore, I can just use the passkey
 
which of course begs the question why can't I remove authenticator, which I don't want.Comment 20: I have both android and iOS and can't remove auth. so if passkey only sign in has rolled out then I imagine I need to set them up again. cuz ms auth 'csnt be removed at this time' across both devicesComment 21: That wasn't my experience.  I added a Passkey for MS to my android device and the original passkey still shows as resident in Authenticator.Comment 22: Yes, since 2021 Microsoft allows you to completely remove the password from your account.  They likely still require at least one instance of Authenticator be installed before you can do this, I'm not sure.Comment 23: When you look at the link I referenced, do you see under the heading "Ways to prove who you are" an entry called "Send sign-in notification"?

If so, click the ">" symbol to the left of this entry to expand it.  You should then see two buttons, "Review Activity" and "Remove".  I assume the Remove button removes push notifications from the list at which point you should be able to delete the Authenticator app from your phone.

If you don't see "Send sign-in notification" in the list, then it has already been removed and you should still be able to safely uninstall Authenticator.Comment 24: In your case, because you are cross-platform, iOS/Android, you should stick with a third-party password manager like MS Authenticator or any other that supports passkeys.Comment 25: I did exactly that. auth is listed among other ways to prove who I am, my usual authenticator, my passkeys etc, but when I click remove it says unable to without further explanation. 

I mean if I can sign in with just my passkeys then cool but I should be able to just remove auth right.

maybe I'll have to completely disable 2fa and password less to be able to remove authenticator.Comment 26: I use bitwarden and set up aegis for totp. despite having passkeys set up, and my preferred authenticator (aegis and on iPhone ente), still can't remove ms authenticator.Comment 27: As I said before, I didn't test the Remove feature because I use Authenticator to sync passwords between my iPhone and my PC.  My advice is to remain passwordless with Yubikeys and just leave Authenticator installed.  The only time you would have to use it is if MS sent you a notification to sign-in.  You certainly don't want to uninstall it if there's a chance they might send a notification.

In addition to Yubikeys and a Windows Hello Passkey, I also have an alternate email in that list, do you?  Maybe that is required before they will let you remove Authenticator.

PS:  Authenticator makes it easy to check your sign-in activity.  Possibly another reason to keep it installed.  I'm a big fan of passwordless accounts and if MS requires Authenticator to enable passwordless, I'm more than willing keep it installed.Comment 28: yeah I'm on the same page, I like having a pw-less MS account and I used to use auth to view login attempts. it would just be nice to be able to restrict my login options to passkeys. I don't really use it for anything except a one drive account and retrieving old emails (I switched to proton last year but have tons of ms emails I still need access to). thanks for the tips:)