Comment 1: Having the exact same issue, I hope someone has found a way to fix this.Comment 2: I just tried to clear the cache on Google play services and it didn't help. I'm constantly having problems with passkey since the day it was available. Using pixel 8 pro.Comment 3: Passkey login using phone on Windows stopped working when I upgraded to Android 14, it keeps saying "Something went wrong" on my phone as well.

I cleared the Google Play Service data out of curiosity, it did fixed Google login with Passkey on Windows with my phone but that's it, other services like GitHub with Passkey still broken and when I tried logging in to my Google account with other browser (Chrome Dev from normal Chrome), it says the same error again. It literally fixed nothing on my end.

I can't even create a new Passkey with QR Code scan from Windows to Android. I really don't know anymore.Comment 4: Yep glitchy need a support ticket faised with Google does anyone know how?Comment 5: I had passkey work for the 1st time today when accessing Google. Maybe they are fixing glitches. I will update if it glitches againComment 6: It was working when I made that comment for Google login, now it stopped working again lol. Just straight up said "Something went wrong".Comment 7: I haven't tried it today , must be glitchyComment 8: I just got an OTA update yesterday (May Security Patch) and Passkey on Google account, GitHub and even WebAuthn started working properly. Just in case if you got an update, I guess it's worth a try.Comment 9: A few things were better before update so may be in related to patch I have 2 Gmail accounts and I was able to add one to my surface for the one that was set up a week ago and started working. I created and tried to add my other one and said no passkeys found. I think maybe it takes a week for it to sync across the Internet and that was even after the patch.bufbtgerebus a delay there should be a disclaimer. And if there is a bug or an outage or that it's not fully functional at times they should post a responce