Comment 1: On chromebook:  
chrome://settings/securityKeysComment 2: >chrome://settings/securityKeys

Are you able to view and delete individual resident credentials with this command on  Chromebook?

The command does nothing on my Chrome browser under Windows 10.  I do have a **chrome://settings/Passkeys** command that shows passkeys stored in Windows Hello but it does not let me see resident keys stored in the Titan.

Do you know a way to view these credentials from Windows?Comment 3: As far as I can tell from poking around online, those settings are not available in Chrome on Windows. This could very well be a limitation of the OS, but that is entirely speculation on my part. The settings are definitely available on macOS, Linux, and Chrome OS.Comment 4: I just got a new Titan Key (version K52T) today. 
 
No the Chromebook reference I mentioned before does not allow you to enumerate the Passkeys stored on the Tritan key.  Very unfortunate.
  
When I access chrome://settings/securityKeys the following is displayed:  

===  

Manage security keys  

Manage phones  
Control which phones you use as security keys  

Create a PIN  
Protect your security key with a PIN (Personal Identification Number)  

Sign-in data  
Manage sign-in data stored on your security key  

Fingerprints  
Add and delete fingerprints saved on your security key  

Reset your security key  
This will delete all data on the security key, including its PIN  

===  

"Manage phones" successfully displays the phones I have logged into and which can be used as a security key  

"Create a PIN" successfully allows me to set up and change a PIN on my new Titan Key.  The pin is then required to add or access a passkey on it.  

"Sign-in data" does not seem to work with the Titan Key and returns the following message:  
This security key can't store any sign-in data  

"Fingerprints" does not work with the Titan key and returns the following message:  
Your security key can't store fingerprints  

"Reset your security key" - I have not used this as I have serveral Passkeys stored on the new Titan Key and I do not want to have to recreate them.  

===Comment 5: Do the settings in those non-Windows operating systems allow you to view a list of the resident credentials stored in the Titan security key and to individually delete one of those credentials?

I'm asking because some on Reddit claim that the new Titan key runs a 2.0 version of CTAP that does not allow for that credential management.  They say the key needs version CTAP 2.1 to be able to manage individual creds.Comment 6: Thanks for the update. According to some, the inability to enumerate resident credentials is intrinsic to the Titan. I've also read there is a flaw in the attestation certificate that prevents enrollment at sites that check attestation.Comment 7: I confirmed this with a Titan I know has resident credentials. Interestingly it does enumerate credentials on YubiKey 5 series keys and allows for individual deletion.Comment 8: I don’t have a new Titan key to test with, but I’d take the others at their word. It certainly works as stated for other brand security keys (e.g. Yubikeys).Comment 9: I wonder if this means that if I remove and re-enroll a passkey from a site where I have previously enrolled, will it overwrite the previous entry on the Titan key, or add another entry?Comment 10: I believe that is how it should work. Given the problem covered here and the certificate problem I have returned both my Titans to Google as faulty and received a full refund.