Comment 1: I am pretty sure I understand what you're running into. I am enthusiastic about passkeys but this kind of confusion is going to drive end users crazy. It's driving ME crazy. Passwords are so much simpler because there's just 1 per site, it's in my password manager and I never get confused about where it is or should be or where to get it from.

I started out wanting to have my passkeys (particularly for my Google accounts) on my devices. I quickly gave up on that, deleted those passkeys in the Google manage-your-account page and then recreated them using my password manager (NordPass) as the authenticator. That's helped a little. But occasionally things still get confusing. 

My impression at the moment is that there were some brilliant minds working on the technical aspects of passkeys, but not enough normal IQ end users testing the user experience.Comment 2: No offense and all, but aren’t you mixing things up? With passkeys this whole ‘Send a notification’ should not be happening. A passkey is a “under the hood” a public-private key pair. The public key is send to the server and the private key is kept in your password manager. So every device where you are logged in with your password manager should be able to handle passkeys on it’s own. Or did I misunderstood your question?Comment 3: Curious if you could add a passkey for Adobe to Windows Hello on the  PC?Comment 4: I'm enthusiastic about passkeys too! And frustrated with how slow and awkward the rollout has been. Guess I'll wait a few months again.Comment 5: I think you understand the situation but not my question. You're right "send a notification" is the wrong language, although I'll note Chrome's dialog literally says "A notification was sent to SM-X800". What I mean is "a passkey authentication login request prompt shows up on a device".

In this case Google Passwords is my password manager. I'm logged in to two Android devices that should both be able to approve a passkey login: my Pixel 8 and my SM-X800 tablet. But the actual passkey dialog to approve the login is only popping up on the tablet unless I go through 4 extra screens (and Windows Hello) to send it to my phone instead. It does work then.

If you have time, I wrote up [details on my problem here](https://nelsonslog.wordpress.com/2024/03/23/passkeys-try-two/). Skip to the section "Logging in with a passkey" for the part about this device confusion.Comment 6: I have red your blog. I was able to replicate the problem, but I couldn't find a solution. That's to say I tried it first with the Google Password manager and than with 1Password. Both on Windows with the chrome browser. With 1Password the Passkey was automatically stored in 1Password right away. The Windows Hello menu didn't show up. With the Google Password manager I had the same issue as you. Anyway you already mentioned that 1Password isn't an option for you. So all and all I think it's the Google Password manager that needs an update. Sorry I can't help you. By the way I used this website : [https://webauthn.io/](https://webauthn.io/) for my test.Comment 7: Thank you for looking so closely at my problem. It's helpful to know I'm not alone.

As I mentioned in the blog post I got a reply on Mastodon from someone working at Google that there's a Chrome bug at work here. Specifically the part where it tells me it's going to send the request to my phone, then sends it to my tablet instead. So hopefully that will get fixed. I still have questions about how I choose which device the requests show up on, but maybe it'll work better after the bug is fixed.

Maybe I should give 1Password a try again. It sounds like it at least partially works in Android 14, maybe it's better than Google's password manager right now.