Comment 1: Yo will not lose them. They are in the cloud. I had passkeys on my iPhone 12 Pro and when I upgraded to the 15 Pro, they all transferred correctly.Comment 2: They are not device bound and are considered syncsble passkeys so they are stored in your Apple account on icloud.Comment 3: If you have iCloud backup turned on, I assume the contents of your keychain is backed up to iCloud.  You can restore the keychain from the backup when you get a new device.Comment 4: Your passkeys will not be lost. They are copied into your iCloud Keychain with no-access encryption when iCloud Keychain is enabled. Apple asks you to enable iCloud Keychain when you first create a passkey on an Apple device. 

Correct, biometric data is not synced between devices or the cloud. Biometric data is stored only on the local device. It is used only to unlock the security keys built into your local device's security chip, just like your local device's PIN or password.

It is important to make sure two-factor authentication is enabled on your iCloud account. If it is, [a device's passcode is used to recover an escrowed keychain.](https://support.apple.com/guide/security/secure-icloud-keychain-recovery-secdeb202947/1/web/1)

If no other logged-in Apple devices are available for your iCloud account, iCloud Keychain recovery is still possible, with your iCloud email address, password, access to your registered phone number, and an iCloud security code created during the iCloud Keychain setup process:

&#x200B;

>From: [Escrow Security for iCloud Keychain](https://support.apple.com/guide/security/escrow-security-for-icloud-keychain-sec3e341e75d/1/web/1)  
  
>  
>To recover a keychain, users must authenticate with their **iCloud account and password and respond to an SMS sent to their registered phone number. After this is done, users must enter their iCloud security code.** The HSM cluster verifies that a user knows their iCloud security code using the Secure Remote Password (SRP) protocol; the code itself isn’t sent to Apple. Each member of the cluster independently verifies that the user hasn’t exceeded the maximum number of attempts allowed to retrieve their record, as discussed below. If a majority agree, the cluster unwraps the escrow record and sends it to the user’s device.  
Next, the device uses the iCloud security code to unwrap the random keys used to encrypt the user’s keychain. With that key, **the keychain—retrieved from iCloud key-value storage and CloudKit—is decrypted and restored onto the device.**Comment 5: No, the passkeys aren't encrypted using your biometric data. Biometric is just a shortcut for your iPhone passcode. Do you have other Apple devices that your keychain is synced to? I'm not sure what happens if your last Apple device is lost. When you add another device (e.g., a new iPhone) to your iCloud account, it asks you for the passcode of another device in your account. But I've never been sure if that device must be currently active or not.Comment 6: So they are not encrypted using biometrics? So how are they stored in iCloud?Comment 7: “In iCloud Keychain, passkeys are end-to-end encrypted, so even Apple can’t read them. A passkey ensures a strong, private relationship between a person and your app or website.”

https://developer.apple.com/passkeys/Comment 8: What about the passkeys  and other passwords at rest inside an iPhone? Are they encrypted using passcode/faceid?Comment 9: What is your concern? From what I read on their website, it is secured enough for me. Of course it has to be encrypted inside the phone with whatever method is that Apple uses.Comment 10: Someone with physical access to a iOS device can they manage to export the passwords/passkeys from the phone storage? 
It would be good if they are encrypted at rest using biometrics or such.
I like I can use biometrics to unlock passkeys for usage but are they encrypted too?
What about these devices used by law enforcement to extract data? Can they extract iOS keychain?Comment 11: I’m not a computer wiz… but if the phone is locked and updated to the latest version, they can’t get it. Furthermore, in order to see the passwords inside the keychain on iOS, you need to authenticate again with a passcode or faceid.