Comment 1: What operating system is the computer running? Windows makes device bound passkeys that stay on the device. macOS makes syncable passkeys that are available on other apple devices. 

If you want to use a passkey on android you should make it there. Other android devices you logon to using the same Google account will then have access to the same passkeys. And these android passkeys can be used on windows or macOS via a qr code scan based flow.Comment 2: me the Samsung pass passkey will come up and then say no passkeys found when I try to use them on some sites. s24ultra android 14. no idea why.Comment 3: I use Dashlane, so I can use the same passkeys on my Android phone, iPad and on desktop, Windows and Linux. No issues so far.Comment 4: What does it mean by for security you can no longer acces encrypted data on this device pls someone solution pls I really wanna play robloxComment 5: Got a same issue - I just set up my old Galaxy Note 10 lite. It operates Android 13.  
I'm trying to test passkey on [passkeys.io](http://passkeys.io) - passkey is saved on RP side, but not on my device. 

My phone is synced to my google account. No idea what I'm doing wrong. 

I know I can use some 3rd party passkey provider, but I want to test the platform authenticator on Android.Comment 6: I use windows 10.

It wont let me create a passkey for android. On the Passkeys section of Gmail it says that Android devices automatically create passkeys for me. But when the time comes to login with a passkey, it doesnt create one for me.Comment 7: theres no way for me to setup passkey on Samsung pass. Im on Android 13Comment 8: [deleted]Comment 9: It sounds to me as though you are under the mistaken belief that your Android phone will automatically create a passkey for every third party account and an app when you log into them, similar to how a password manager or browser may ask you if you wish for it to save login credentials after you have signed into a site. That's not how it works for passkeys. Not every site or service supports passkeys, and for those that do, you usually have to go to your account settings after logging in and choosing to create a passkey, similar to registering a security key por authenticator app for 2FA. Some sites may ask you if you want to create a passkey after you have signed in, but that's up to the site, and it's rare.

Since you mentioned Coinbase, for example, after you log into coinbase on your phone you'd go to the security settings page and select the 2FA settings tab. Under the Available Methods section, select Passkey, then Add Passkey. Follow the prompts. Sometimes a service will only allow you to create a passkey through their website, not their app, so you may have to use your phone's browser. There is a way to save a passkey onto your phone from another device, such as a Windows PC, but I won't get into that here.

When Google says that it automatically creates a passkey on your Android phone, it was talking specifically about a passkey to log into Google and Google services, such as Gmail. You can test this by opening incognito session on your mobile web browser. Go to Gmail.com. when you get the screen where it asks for your password, instead of entering your password, click on the link below it that says"try another way". Select the option for a passkey, and it will use the Google passkey that was already created on the phone to log you in to gmail, without having to enter your password or 2FA credentials.Comment 10: you can save and use them with chrome tho right?Comment 11: Passkey is not supported on Android 13. You will need Android 14+Comment 12: I've not tried with any cryptocurrency exchanges yet as I'm not currently using them, but I have had that problem with one or two other sites. Sometimes it does still appear in Dashlane after an apparent error. It seems that not all sites have got it working perfectly with every platform yet.

It might be worth making Dashlane aware of this.Comment 13: Thanks for the response. The issue for Coinbase is that I turned on passkey yesterday on my computer ( I didnt know what it was until then ) and after I did that it started asking for my passkey immediately on my Android. I cant log in from my Android anymore because I never set up a passkey on my Android yet it keeps asking for one. 

I would turn it off but unfortunately the Security tab to turn it off always 404s for me so I have no way to turn it off. By what you wrote, Coinbase should have allowed me to log into the app from the Android and then asked me to set up a passkey but it never did that, it just asked me to enter one straight away after I set it up on my computer.Comment 14: Not on what I want to use it on, which is Coinbase. It just simply says No passkeys available on both the web browser and the app.Comment 15: If Coinbase were to let you log in on your phone with just the username and password, it would entirely defeat the purpose of having enabled 2FA. The whole point of 2FA is to require something other than a password to log in, in case your password gets compromised. If it would have let you log in with just the password, that means another person who stole your password could just as easily have logged in and then locked you.

I think the problem is that you created a single device-bound passkey on your PC. You should be able to log back into Coinbase using that PC, because it holds the passkey. Then, you can go to your account settings and fix this problem in a number of different ways.Comment 16: Did you setup the passkey in a synced  account on Windows that you can access on Android, in a supported Android release?

passkeys are device bound unless you did that step and bound it to a password keeper that can present them through OS integration 

1password comes to mindComment 17: That's probably because you did not save a passkey to your Android phone; you only saved a single-device passkey onto your PC. What you need to do is the following.  On the computer where you created the passkey use the Google Chrome browser to log into the Coinbase website. You should be able to log in since that PC has the passkey. Navigate through the account settings / Security settings until you find the option to add a passkey, and select it. When the prompt pops up select the option that's called "a different device" or  "Try another way" until you see a QR code to scan with your phone. That will create a passkey on your phone that will sync through your Google account.
After you scan the QR code, you can choose to remember your computer. If you do, the computer shows your Android device as an option when you need a passkey. When you select it, you receive a notification on your device to verify your identity.Comment 18: I would turn off passkey if I could on the app, the issue is the Security tab doesnt work it just 404s on my computer. So the only way for me to allow any change to the passkey is broken so Im just completely stuck.