Comment 1: No. CAPTCHAs check if the person making a request is human. I would sincerely hope that passkeys are made in such a way that their use can be automated.Comment 2: Companies are working on different ways to get rid of CAPTCHAs. For example, Apple is working on [Private Access Tokens](https://blog.cloudflare.com/eliminating-captchas-on-iphones-and-macs-using-new-standard/) that rely on the device and Apple ID to prove they are not bots. Pretty sure other vendors are doing the same.Comment 3: The fundamental problem (as pointed out in the article) is attestation: how does the remote service know that user presence was verified? I see two blockers to solving this problem:

* Services will have to implement and rely on a finite list of approved end-user devices to perform the passkey exchange. This will lead to complexities like exist with CAs and detract from the intended openness of Passkeys as a whole as users may require multiple devices in order to use their desired services.

* [Using hardware to verify human presence simply expands the surface bad actors have to find vulnerabilities in to bypass the CAPTCHA.](https://bert.org/2020/10/01/pressing-yubikeys/)Comment 4: I don't see in your article how passkeys would replace CAPTCHAs, nor how passkeys would combat bots or provide DoS protection.

If I generate a passkey on my computer, I have a public and private keypair. When I visit a site I've never visited before, how would passkeys replace a CAPTCHA? The site would need a copy of my public key before I made the visit to authenticate me. But because this is the first time the site has seen me, it doesn't have that public key.

If the public key is transferred automatically by some authenticated handshake, similar to ECHDE, how do passkeys differentiate humans from bots? What prevents a bot from generating passkeys and going through the same automated process?

Finally, how do passkeys protect against denial-of-service attacks and other unwanted traffic?

This article doesn't address any of the points that CAPTCHAs are actually solving, so I'm not exactly sure what the point of the article is.Comment 5: Passkeys and CAPTCHAs solve two very different problems. Even if you could switch everyone to passkeys overnight, web sites would still need a way to filter out bots. Passkeys won't fix that.Comment 6: Captchas can be solved with AI with better than 98% precision. It is a technology of the past ..Comment 7: u/stijnhommes Why do you hope that passkeys are made so their use can be automated? I'm interested in your take on that.Comment 8: They don't need captchas anymore. Nowadays the algorithm can see, by the movement of the mouse or something, that you're human. Why a computer cannot copy that is beyond me. Often you see that you only have to check a box, and then it's the new captcha without the bus or zebra.Comment 9: Still, if that algorithm isn't sure, it will still give you the conventional one checking for fire hydrants and traffic lights or something similar.