Comment 1: I believe the passkeys are stored in the TPM and encrypted by windows hello.Comment 2: I think this is a misconception about the purpose of passkeys. Their main purpose is to replace the issues that come with alpha-numeric passwords: creating, maintaining, remembering, changing, copying and pasting, etc.
Passkeys come with added benefit that each device can have unique passkey (if you want a little more maintenance).

However, you must still safeguard the device.  Passkeys are better that passwords, but ARE NOT a replacement for hardware security keys (yubikey, etc). It’s an in between. 
With a password, you’re typing it or pasting it somewhere which can be intercepted (like phishing site for example). This is not possible with passkeys. The human error is removed from the process.

Windows has been doing something similar with windows hello for a few years. Now this concept can be used for any site or service. On windows the same system that stores windows hello would store the passkey. Each of your devices would have its own passkey. So getting into one device doesn’t give access to all devices. But my iPhone is separated too with its own security model and own passkey.

Also, remember that passkeys are two parts. (EDIT 2023-08-09: for clarification: private key is stored on device and public key is stored on server/service). Your device only has half the necessary keys. The other half is on the service. This also forces a unique passkey for every site/service eliminating the concept of password reuse. This is one biggest reasons for passkeys.

Please keep in mind that I may be wrong about some oft this. I just have a general understanding and had many of the same questions as you. I think there will need to be a lot of education about passkeys. They are better, but slightly more complicated. The payoff is when you use them. Things just work auto-magically. No auto-fill or copying username and password or all that jazz.

The biggest issue currently is import/export of passkeys from one provider to another like if you were to change from 1Password Bitwarden. Import/export with passwords is relatively trivial (although very insecure).  There are difficult issues doing this with passkeys. This is why I’m waiting for 1password and iOS 17 support before more fully embracing passkeys. I currently only have google passkeys and manage them with google, not a third party manager like 1password/Bitwarden.Comment 3: This is important to know, thanks for clarifying. Sticking to generated passwords and manager.Comment 4: So basically, they were already planning this passkey nonsense when they decided on the Windows 11 requirements. What about devices without TPM?Comment 5: Mostly correct. Passkeys still work on devices that don’t have TPM. It’s less secure. 
My PC is from 2012 and windows 10. No TPM, so google passkey and windows hello is all software based. My windows 11 laptop and iPhone however have hardware TPM/security moduleComment 6: > Also, remember that passkeys are two parts. Your device only has half the necessary keys. The other half is on the service. This also forces a unique passkey for every site/service eliminating the concept of password reuse. This is one biggest reasons for passkeys.

I'm not sure you can say that passkeys are two parts. The thing that forces unique passkeys is that each key can only be used with a specific RP ID (Relying Party ID). 

  >  In the context of the WebAuthn API, a relying party identifier is a valid domain string identifying the WebAuthn Relying Party on whose behalf a given registration or authentication ceremony is being performed. A public key credential can only be used for authentication with the same entity (as identified by RP ID) it was registered with.

https://www.w3.org/TR/webauthn-2/#rp-idComment 7: Just fyi you can store passkeys in a password manager. That’s my plan.Comment 8: Not sure what the official support is but you can also use a password manager like 1Password  to store the keys encrypted on the disk or on cloud.Comment 9: Agreed, i was trying to keep it simple by emphasizing that not everything is stored on the end user’s device in the way passwords are. Thank you for the clarification.

Which leads me to one of the biggest hurdles for passkeys - public education around them. Imagine saying what you replied to me to Grandma or Grandpa.  They would just huff and say “I’ll stick with passwords.”  There has to be a simple (or less technical) explanation to overcome people’s hesitancy.

In my mind, the greatest beneficiaries of passkeys are the less technically inclined. The people who are more likely to fall for phishing attacks and such. Unfortunately they’re  also the ones more likely to stick to old familiar ways (username and password) if passkeys are seen as overly complex (or if the implemented is complex).

For example, one thing that some people may not intuitively get is that passkeys aren’t (always) 1:1 with passwords. That is to say there might me multiple passkeys for an single account/service. This would be a separate passkey for each device (assuming no sharing). Like on google passkey manager, I have separate registrations for Pc, Laptop, and iPhone. It’s easy to see this as confusing from the perspective of a password user. You’re actually registering your device (AND you via biometrics) instead of just you via a password. It actually is more complex to some degree. The payoff is in the added security and ease of use. Some complexity is introduced in the creation and management phase for huge gains in other areas.

Another area is that the more ecosystems you’re in the more complex the management becomes. For example, if you have a PC and an iPhone, you’ll now be in at least two passkey ecosystems (windows hello and iCloud Keychain). This isn’t even counting if you you use a third party password manager like 1password or Bitwarden.  I think it will take some time to figure out an organic and efficient way to manage passkeys. For me, I’ll let google manage my google passkeys, but use 1Password for lots of the smaller things. Same for Microsoft and apple. There’s eventually going to be a best practice with respect to separation of concerns. But that’s a few years out. 


I think another hesitancy issue is a user’s sense of a loss of control. It can FEEL like you’re giving up too much control with a passkey. A black box. When in reality it’s a far better system.Comment 10: That could work in theory too tbh. Once it's matured and standardComment 11: Yes, and I could also paint the middle toe of my right foot with purple nail polish and dance bavkwards around a fire made with eucalyptus leaves.

That doesn't mean I should do it. In the end big tech is working on passkeys because they noticed password are no longer earning them enough money. It isn't and never has been about security. They want you to have less control of your accounts and your data.Comment 12: Ya, it’s still gonna be awhile for best practices. Waiting on ios17 and 3rd party for full support.  
If you want to get started though I would highly recommend moving your google account to passkeys. You’ll still have a username password for the foreseeable future as an alternate way to sign in, but it’s a very good way to get your feet wet and start seeing the benefits of passkeys.Comment 13: Lol ok dude